Add example and tutorial to explain how to create custom metrics for Prometheus (#914)
ray-project/kuberay: docs/guidance/prometheus-grafana.md

* The YAML example above is [serviceMonitor.yaml](../../config/prometheus/serviceMonitor.yaml), and it is created by **install.sh**. Hence, no need to create anything here.
* See [ServiceMonitor official document](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/main/Documentation/api.md#servicemonitor) for more details about the configurations.

> * #### `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect ServiceMonitor with this label.

Reviewer: What's the purpose of "####"?

  podMetricsEndpoints:
  - port: metrics
```

> * `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect PodMonitor with this label. See [here](#release-helm_release-prometheus-can-only-detect-servicemonitor-with-this-label ) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect PodMonitor with this label. See [here](#release-helm_release-prometheus-can-only-detect-servicemonitor-with-this-label) for more details.
```

* `ray.io/cluster: $RAY_CLUSTER_NAME`: We also define `metadata.labels` by manually adding `ray.io/cluster: <ray-cluster-name>` and then instructing the PodMonitors resource to add that label in the scraped metrics via `spec.podTargetLabels[0].ray.io/cluster`.

## Step 7: Collect Custom metrics with Recording Rules

[Recording Rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/recording_rules/) allow us to precompute frequently needed or computationally expensive [PromQL](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/) expressions and save their result as custom metrics. Note this is different from [Custom Application-level Metrics](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-observability/ray-metrics.html#application-level-metrics) which aim for the visibility of ray applications.

```yaml

apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PrometheusRule
metadata:
  name: ray-cluster-gcs-rules
  namespace: prometheus-system
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect Rule with this label.
    release: prometheus
spec:
  groups:

>   - # Name of the group. Rules within a group are run sequentially at a regular interval,

Author: They are actually referring to the same thing. Rules within a group are run sequentially at the same evaluation interval. regular interval and same evaluation time all refer to the same evaluation interval.

    # with the same evaluation time.
    name: ray-cluster-main-staging-gcs.rules
    # How often rules in the group are evaluated.
    interval: 30s
    rules:
    - # The name of the time series to output to.
      # Also see best practices for naming metrics created by recording rules:
      # https://prometheus.io/docs/practices/rules/#recording-rules
      record: ray_gcs_availability_30d
      # The PromQL expression to evaluate.
      # The following expression will return percentage of Ray GCS resource update requests with usage times smaller than 20ms.
      # Note ray_gcs_update_resource_usage_time stores the average RTT of a UpdateResourceUsage RPC.
      expr: |
      (
        100 * (
          sum(rate(ray_gcs_update_resource_usage_time_bucket{container="ray-head", le="20.0"}[30d]))
          /
          sum(rate(ray_gcs_update_resource_usage_time_count{container="ray-head"}[30d]))
        )
      )
```

> * The recording rule above is one of rules defined in [prometheusRules.yaml](../../config/prometheus/rules/prometheusRules.yaml), and it is created by **install.sh**, Hence, no need to create anything here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The recording rule above is one of rules defined in [prometheusRules.yaml](../../config/prometheus/rules/prometheusRules.yaml), and it is created by **install.sh**. Hence, no need to create anything here.
```

* See [PrometheusRule official document](https://github.com/prometheus-operator/prometheus-operator/blob/main/Documentation/api.md#prometheusrule) for more details about the configurations.

> * `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect PrometheusRule with this label.

Reviewer: Point to the above section.

  ```sh
  kubectl get prometheuses.monitoring.coreos.com -n prometheus-system -oyaml
  # ruleSelector:
  #   matchLabels:
  #     release: prometheus
  ```

* PrometheusRule can be reloaded at runtime. Use `kubectl apply {modified prometheusRules.yaml}` to reconfigure the rules if needed.

## Step 8: Define Alert Conditions with Alerting Rules

> [Alerting rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/alerting_rules/) allow us to define alert conditions based on [PromQL](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/) expressions and to send notifications about firing alerts to [Alertmanager](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager).

Reviewer: Explain more about AlertManager.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PrometheusRule
metadata:
  name: ray-cluster-gcs-rules
  namespace: prometheus-system
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect Rule with this label.
    release: prometheus
spec:
  groups:
  - name: ray-cluster-main-staging-gcs.rules
    # How often rules in the group are evaluated.
    interval: 30s
    rules:

>       # The name of the alert.

Reviewer: Remove.

    - alert: RayGlobalControlStoreShortWindowSLO
      # A set of informational labels that can be used to store longer additional information.
      annotations:
        description: Ray GCS Resource Update requests are above the SLO (99.9 > 20ms).
          Burning rate is 14.4 for short window (5m & 1h)
        summary: Ray GCS is burning too much error budget (short window)

>       # The PromQL expression to evaluate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # PromQL expression
```

      expr:
                      (
                        ray_gcs_error_budget_5m > 14.4*0.1
                      )
                      and
                      (
                        ray_gcs_error_budget_1h > 14.4*0.1
                      )

>       # time to wait between first encountering a new expression output vector element and counting an alert as firing for this element.

Reviewer: Hard to understand.

      for: 5m
      # A set of additional labels to be attached to the alert.

>       labels:

Reviewer: What's the difference between `labels` and `annotations`?

        severity: critical
```
* Alerting rules are configured in the same way as recording rules.

* The alerting rule above is one of rules defined in [prometheusRules.yaml](../../config/prometheus/rules/prometheusRules.yaml), and it is created by **install.sh**, Hence, no need to create anything here.

## Step 9: Access Prometheus Web UI
```sh
# Forward the port of Prometheus Web UI in the Prometheus server Pod.
kubectl port-forward --address 0.0.0.0 prometheus-prometheus-kube-prometheus-prometheus-0 -n prometheus-system 9090:9090
```

- Go to `${YOUR_IP}:9090/targets` (e.g. `127.0.0.1:9090/targets`). You should be able to see:
  - `podMonitor/prometheus-system/ray-workers-monitor/0 (1/1 up)`
  - `serviceMonitor/prometheus-system/ray-head-monitor/0 (1/1 up)`
![Prometheus Web UI](../images/prometheus_web_ui.png)

- Go to `${YOUR_IP}:9090/targets`. You should be able to query:

>   - [System Metrics](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-observability/ray-metrics.html#system-metrics )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [System Metrics](https://docs.ray.io/en/latest/ray-observability/ray-metrics.html#system-metrics)
```

* `ray.io/cluster: $RAY_CLUSTER_NAME`: We also define `metadata.labels` by manually adding `ray.io/cluster: <ray-cluster-name>` and then instructing the PodMonitors resource to add that label in the scraped metrics via `spec.podTargetLabels[0].ray.io/cluster`.

> ## Step 7: Collect Custom metrics with Recording Rules

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 7: Collect custom metrics with Recording Rules
```

* `ray.io/cluster: $RAY_CLUSTER_NAME`: We also define `metadata.labels` by manually adding `ray.io/cluster: <ray-cluster-name>` and then instructing the PodMonitors resource to add that label in the scraped metrics via `spec.podTargetLabels[0].ray.io/cluster`.

## Step 7: Collect custom metrics with Recording Rules

[Recording Rules](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/recording_rules/) allow us to precompute frequently needed or computationally expensive [PromQL](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/basics/) expressions and save their result as custom metrics. Note this is different from [Custom Application-level Metrics](https://docs.ray.io/en/master/ray-observability/ray-metrics.html#application-level-metrics) which aim for the visibility of ray applications.

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PrometheusRule
metadata:
  name: ray-cluster-gcs-rules
  namespace: prometheus-system
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect Recording Rules with this label.
    release: prometheus
spec:
  groups:

> - # Rules within a group are run sequentially at the same evaluation interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- # Rules within a group will be triggered periodically with the same evaluation interval (30s in this example).
```

```yaml
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: PrometheusRule
metadata:
  name: ray-cluster-gcs-rules
  namespace: prometheus-system
  labels:
    # `release: $HELM_RELEASE`: Prometheus can only detect Alerting Rules with this label.
    release: prometheus
spec:
  groups:
  - name: ray-cluster-main-staging-gcs.rules
    # How often rules in the group are evaluated.
    interval: 30s
    rules:
    - alert: MissingMetricRayGlobalControlStore
      # A set of informational labels. Annotations can be used to store longer additional information compared to rules.0.labels.
      annotations:
        description: Ray GCS is not emitting any metrics for Resource Update requests
        summary: Ray GCS is not emitting metrics anymore
      # PromQL expression.
      expr: |
                      (
                       absent(ray_gcs_update_resource_usage_time_bucket) == 1
                      )
      # Time that Prometheus will wait and check if the alert continues to be active during each evaluation before firing the alert.
      # firing alerts may be due to false positives or noise if the setting value is too small.

>       # firing alerts may not be handled in time if the setting value is too big.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      # On the other hand, if the value is big, the alerts may not be handled in time.
```
